[Excel](custom functions) return a dynamic array (#1497)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/custom-functions-dynamic-arrays.md

---
ms.date: 12/16/2019
description: Return a dynamic array from your custom function in an Office Excel add-in.
title: Return a dynamic array from your custom function
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Return a dynamic array from your custom function

> You can return multiple results from your custom function to make it a dynamic array formula. Multiple results will spill into neighboring cells. You can return results that only spill down, to the right, or both down and to the right.

Reviewer: Maybe it is worth defining a dynamic array first, then saying CFs can do them. 
```suggestion
Using dynamic arrays, you can return multiple results from a function to multiple cells. Within custom functions, you can use dynamic arrays and specify how these results will spill into neighboring cells. You can return results that only spill down, to the right, or both down and to the right.
```

To create a custom function that is a dynamic array formula, it must return a two-dimensional array of values. The following example shows how to return a dynamic array that spills down.

> ```javascript

Reviewer: My only qualm about this dynamic array thing is that it is hard to understand without seeing it actually work. Is there a chance we can add .gifs or a call out to try this in a Script Lab snippet? Personally I just think they are really confusing. If we think that this article will only be read by people who are already power users who understand what Dynamic Arrays are, then I would leave it.

/**
 * Get text values that spill down.
 * @customfunction
 * @returns {string[][]} A dynamic array with multiple results.
 */
function spillDown() {
  return [['first'], ['second'], ['third']];
}
```

The following example shows how to return a dynamic array that spills right. 

```javascript
/**
 * Get text values that spill to the right.
 * @customfunction
 * @returns {string[][]} A dynamic array with multiple results.
 */
function spillRight() {
  return [['first', 'second', 'third']];
}
```

The following example shows how to return a dynamic array that spills both down and right.

```javascript
/**

>  * Get text values that spill both right and down.

Reviewer: I am curious if I run an array that plops out results accidentally on top of data already in cells (i.e. trying to spill into an area where you can't spill). Will I see a "#SPILL!" error? If so might be worth putting in troubleshooting and calling out here? Unless we are assuming that people already know how these work

Author: It will do the #SPILL! error, but this is expected behavior, not a troubleshooting thing. The end user has to fix it by moving cells out of the way or such. I added a link to the Office help on how this behavior works, so that has plenty of info about this.

 * @customfunction
 * @returns {string[][]} A dynamic array with multiple results.
 */
function spillRectangle() {
  return [
    ['apples', 1, 'pounds'],
    ['oranges', 3, 'pounds'],
    ['pears', 5, 'crates']
  ];
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Support article linked below says that: "Excel has limited support for dynamic arrays between workbooks, and this scenario is only supported when both workbooks are open. If you close the source workbook, any linked dynamic array formulas will return a #REF! error when they are refreshed." I would imagine the same is true for CFs? Also would this be something to call out in the "frequent errors" section of our troubleshooting docs?

Author: I think this applies to any formula that links, and therefore any custom function, so this really wouldn't be the place to document #REF! behavior. However, this again is something the end user needs to be aware of. Custom functions are not behaving any differently than the built-in functions when linking (as far as I know.)
